blueprints: add WireGuard getting started blueprint based on the video (#1575)
superfly/docs: blueprints/connect-private-network-wireguard/index.html.md

---
title: Jack into your private network with WireGuard
layout: docs
sitemap: true
nav: firecracker
author: xe
categories:
  - networking
date: 2024-06-14
---

<center><iframe width="600" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4NcvlIlIlso?si=DPbDPwzlRTQFx0hB" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe></center><br />

> Every [Fly.io](http://Fly.io) organization comes with a [private network](https://fly.io/docs/networking/private-networking/) that lets all your apps connect to each other. This is super convenient when you need to have microservices call eachother’s endpoints or use [Flycast](https://fly.io/docs/networking/private-networking/#flycast-private-fly-proxy-services) to let your private apps turn off when you’re not using them. However, this isn’t just limited to your apps. You can jack into this network with WireGuard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every [Fly.io](http://Fly.io) organization comes with a [private network](https://fly.io/docs/networking/private-networking/) that lets all your apps connect to each other. This is super convenient when you need to have microservices call each other’s endpoints or use [Flycast](https://fly.io/docs/networking/private-networking/#flycast-private-fly-proxy-services) to let your private apps turn off when you’re not using them. However, this isn’t just limited to your apps. You can jack into this network with WireGuard.
```

> Today I’ll show you how to create a WireGuard peer to your private network and connect to it so that you can access it from anywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blueprint shows you how to create a WireGuard peer to your private network and connect to it so that you can access it from anywhere.
```

> ## **Prerequisites**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> In order to get started, you need to have the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started, you need to have the following:
```

- A [fly.io](http://fly.io) account
- Flyctl installed (https://fly.io/docs/hands-on/install-flyctl/)
- The [WireGuard client](https://www.wireguard.com/install/) installed

> ## **Steps**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Steps
```

When you create a WireGuard peer, you need the following information:

- The organization you want to create the peer in, such as your personal organization.

> - The [fly.io](http://fly.io) region that’s closest to you.
> - The name of the peer, such as your computer’s hostname
> - A filename to save the configuration to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [Fly.io region](/docs/reference/regions/) that’s closest to you.
- The name of the peer, such as your computer’s hostname.
- A filename to save the configuration to.
```

```
$ fly wg create --help
Add a WireGuard peer connection to an organization

Usage:
  fly wireguard create [org] [region] [name] [file] [flags]
```

You can figure out your list of organizations with `fly orgs list`:

```
$ fly orgs list
Name                 Slug                 Type
----                 ----                 ----
fly-gpus             fly-gpus             SHARED
Xe Iaso              personal             PERSONAL
devrel-demos         devrel-demos         SHARED
```

You can figure out which region is nearest you with `fly platform regions` or by checking the [regions page](https://fly.io/docs/reference/regions/) in the documentation:

```
$ fly platform regions
```

> With all this in mind, let’s assemble the command. Start with:

Reviewer: I think people are going to just start running these commands. Which might be fine, because they get prompted by flyctl for the org and the filename, but NOT the peer name, it just uses the computer name by default.

Your options are to write it by starting with `fly wireguard` create and use the prompts OR just explain the pieces and then give the one command as: `fly wireguard create personal yul camellia camellia.conf` instead of building it out.

Author: ```suggestion
With all this in mind, let’s assemble the command. Each of these steps is going to build up the command, but don't hit enter until it's all done.

Start with the base command `fly wireguard create`:
```

```
$ fly wireguard create
```

I want to create this in my personal organization, so I’ll enter in personal for the organization name.

```
$ fly wireguard create personal
```

> I’m in Ottawa, so I’m using the Montreal region.

Author: ```suggestion
I’m in Ottawa, so I’m using the Montreal region `yul`.
```

```
$ fly wireguard create personal yul
```

My computer’s hostname is Camellia, so I’ll use that as the peer name.

```
$ fly wireguard create personal yul camellia
```

Finally I want to save this as camellia.conf so that WireGuard can load it.

```
$ fly wireguard create personal yul camellia camellia.conf
```

> Then run the command, and once it’s done open up the WireGuard app.

Author: ```suggestion
Then run the command (you can hit enter now), and once it’s done open up the WireGuard app.
```

Import the tunnel from the configuration file and then turn it on. macOS may prompt if you want the WireGuard app to manage VPN connections. If it does, hit accept, otherwise you won’t be able to get into your network.

<video width="886" height="574" controls autoplay loop style="margin-bottom: 2rem;">
  <source src="./wireguard-activate.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

The above video shows how you import a WireGuard config on macOS. For clarity's sake, here are the steps:

- Click on the "Import tunnel(s) from file" button.
- Select the configuration file you saved earlier.
- Click on the "Activate" button.
- macOS will ask you if you want to allow the WireGuard app to manage VPN connections. Click "Allow" if you trust it.

> To test it, ping `_api.internal` (NOTE: on macOS you need to run `ping6 _api.internal` because it's an IPv6 address):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test it, ping `_api.internal` (on macOS you need to run `ping6 _api.internal` because it's an IPv6 address):
```

```
$ ping6 _api.internal -c4
PING6(56=40+8+8 bytes) fdaa:3:9018:a7b:9285:0:a:602 --> fdaa:3:9018::3
16 bytes from fdaa:3:9018::3, icmp_seq=0 hlim=64 time=9.741 ms
16 bytes from fdaa:3:9018::3, icmp_seq=1 hlim=64 time=49.103 ms
16 bytes from fdaa:3:9018::3, icmp_seq=2 hlim=64 time=97.667 ms
16 bytes from fdaa:3:9018::3, icmp_seq=3 hlim=64 time=14.726 ms

--- _api.internal ping6 statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 packets received, 0.0% packet loss
round-trip min/avg/max/std-dev = 9.741/42.809/97.667/35.111 ms
```

> To test this, I'll fire up an instance of [Ollama](https://ollama.com) that I have on my private network. You can fire it up with the following commands in an empty folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test this with an instance of [Ollama](https://ollama.com), you can fire it up with the following commands in an empty folder (don't forget to delete it after!):
```

Reviewer: or something like that
